Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-srggb8.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SRGGB8:

****************************
V4L2_PIX_FMT_SRGGB8 ('RGGB')
****************************


Bayer RGB format


Description
===========

This is commonly the native format of digital cameras, reflecting the
arrangement of sensors on the CCD device. Only one red, green or blue
value is given for each pixel. Missing components must be interpolated
from neighbouring pixels. From left to right the first row consists of a
red and green value, the second row of a green and blue value. This
scheme repeats to the right and down for every two columns and rows.

**Byte Order.**
Each cell is one byte.




.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  start + 0:

       -  R\ :sub:`00`

       -  G\ :sub:`01`

       -  R\ :sub:`02`

       -  G\ :sub:`03`

    -  .. row 2

       -  start + 4:

       -  G\ :sub:`10`

       -  B\ :sub:`11`

       -  G\ :sub:`12`

       -  B\ :sub:`13`

    -  .. row 3

       -  start + 8:

       -  R\ :sub:`20`

       -  G\ :sub:`21`

       -  R\ :sub:`22`

       -  G\ :sub:`23`

    -  .. row 4

       -  start + 12:

       -  G\ :sub:`30`

       -  B\ :sub:`31`

       -  G\ :sub:`32`

       -  B\ :sub:`33`

Commit message:

[media] doc-rst: Unify documentation of the 8-bit bayer formats
The other raw bayer formats had a single sample depth dependent definition
whereas the 8-bit formats had one page for each. Unify the documentation
of the 8-bit formats.

Signed-off-by: Sakari Ailus <sakari.ailus@linux.intel.com>
Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-srggb8.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SRGGB8:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sbggr8:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sgbrg8:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sgrbg8:

***************************************************************************************************************************
V4L2_PIX_FMT_SRGGB8 ('RGGB'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGRBG8 ('GRBG'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGBRG8 ('GBRG'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR8 ('BA81'),
***************************************************************************************************************************


8-bit Bayer formats


Description
===========

These four pixel formats are raw sRGB / Bayer formats with 8 bits per
sample. Each sample is stored in a byte. Each n-pixel row contains n/2
green samples and n/2 blue or red samples, with alternating red and
blue rows. They are conventionally described as GRGR... BGBG...,
RGRG... GBGB..., etc. Below is an example of one of these formats:

**Byte Order.**
Each cell is one byte.




.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  start + 0:

       -  B\ :sub:`00`

       -  G\ :sub:`01`

       -  B\ :sub:`02`

       -  G\ :sub:`03`

    -  .. row 2

       -  start + 4:

       -  G\ :sub:`10`

       -  R\ :sub:`11`

       -  G\ :sub:`12`

       -  R\ :sub:`13`

    -  .. row 3

       -  start + 8:

       -  B\ :sub:`20`

       -  G\ :sub:`21`

       -  B\ :sub:`22`

       -  G\ :sub:`23`

    -  .. row 4

       -  start + 12:

       -  G\ :sub:`30`

       -  R\ :sub:`31`

       -  G\ :sub:`32`

       -  R\ :sub:`33`
