Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-srggb10.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SRGGB10:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sbggr10:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sgbrg10:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sgrbg10:

***************************************************************************************************************************
V4L2_PIX_FMT_SRGGB10 ('RG10'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGRBG10 ('BA10'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGBRG10 ('GB10'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR10 ('BG10'),
***************************************************************************************************************************


V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGRBG10
V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGBRG10
V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR10
10-bit Bayer formats expanded to 16 bits


Description
===========

These four pixel formats are raw sRGB / Bayer formats with 10 bits per
colour. Each colour component is stored in a 16-bit word, with 6 unused
high bits filled with zeros. Each n-pixel row contains n/2 green samples
and n/2 blue or red samples, with alternating red and blue rows. Bytes
are stored in memory in little endian order. They are conventionally
described as GRGR... BGBG..., RGRG... GBGB..., etc. Below is an example
of one of these formats

**Byte Order.**
Each cell is one byte, high 6 bits in high bytes are 0.




.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  start + 0:

       -  B\ :sub:`00low`

       -  B\ :sub:`00high`

       -  G\ :sub:`01low`

       -  G\ :sub:`01high`

       -  B\ :sub:`02low`

       -  B\ :sub:`02high`

       -  G\ :sub:`03low`

       -  G\ :sub:`03high`

    -  .. row 2

       -  start + 8:

       -  G\ :sub:`10low`

       -  G\ :sub:`10high`

       -  R\ :sub:`11low`

       -  R\ :sub:`11high`

       -  G\ :sub:`12low`

       -  G\ :sub:`12high`

       -  R\ :sub:`13low`

       -  R\ :sub:`13high`

    -  .. row 3

       -  start + 16:

       -  B\ :sub:`20low`

       -  B\ :sub:`20high`

       -  G\ :sub:`21low`

       -  G\ :sub:`21high`

       -  B\ :sub:`22low`

       -  B\ :sub:`22high`

       -  G\ :sub:`23low`

       -  G\ :sub:`23high`

    -  .. row 4

       -  start + 24:

       -  G\ :sub:`30low`

       -  G\ :sub:`30high`

       -  R\ :sub:`31low`

       -  R\ :sub:`31high`

       -  G\ :sub:`32low`

       -  G\ :sub:`32high`

       -  R\ :sub:`33low`

       -  R\ :sub:`33high`

Commit message:

[media] doc-rst: Clean up raw bayer pixel format definitions
- Explicitly state that the most significant n bits are zeroed on 10 and
  12 bpp formats.
- Remove extra comma from the last entry of the format list
- Add a missing colon before a list
- Use figures versus word numerals consistently

Signed-off-by: Sakari Ailus <sakari.ailus@linux.intel.com>
Acked-by: Hans Verkuil <hans.verkuil@cisco.com>
Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-srggb10.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SRGGB10:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sbggr10:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sgbrg10:
.. _v4l2-pix-fmt-sgrbg10:

***************************************************************************************************************************
V4L2_PIX_FMT_SRGGB10 ('RG10'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGRBG10 ('BA10'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGBRG10 ('GB10'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR10 ('BG10'),
***************************************************************************************************************************


V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGRBG10
V4L2_PIX_FMT_SGBRG10
V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR10
10-bit Bayer formats expanded to 16 bits


Description
===========

These four pixel formats are raw sRGB / Bayer formats with 10 bits per
sample. Each sample is stored in a 16-bit word, with 6 unused
high bits filled with zeros. Each n-pixel row contains n/2 green samples and
n/2 blue or red samples, with alternating red and blue rows. Bytes are
stored in memory in little endian order. They are conventionally described
as GRGR... BGBG..., RGRG... GBGB..., etc. Below is an example of one of
these formats:

**Byte Order.**
Each cell is one byte, the 6 most significant bits in the high bytes
are 0.




.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  start + 0:

       -  B\ :sub:`00low`

       -  B\ :sub:`00high`

       -  G\ :sub:`01low`

       -  G\ :sub:`01high`

       -  B\ :sub:`02low`

       -  B\ :sub:`02high`

       -  G\ :sub:`03low`

       -  G\ :sub:`03high`

    -  .. row 2

       -  start + 8:

       -  G\ :sub:`10low`

       -  G\ :sub:`10high`

       -  R\ :sub:`11low`

       -  R\ :sub:`11high`

       -  G\ :sub:`12low`

       -  G\ :sub:`12high`

       -  R\ :sub:`13low`

       -  R\ :sub:`13high`

    -  .. row 3

       -  start + 16:

       -  B\ :sub:`20low`

       -  B\ :sub:`20high`

       -  G\ :sub:`21low`

       -  G\ :sub:`21high`

       -  B\ :sub:`22low`

       -  B\ :sub:`22high`

       -  G\ :sub:`23low`

       -  G\ :sub:`23high`

    -  .. row 4

       -  start + 24:

       -  G\ :sub:`30low`

       -  G\ :sub:`30high`

       -  R\ :sub:`31low`

       -  R\ :sub:`31high`

       -  G\ :sub:`32low`

       -  G\ :sub:`32high`

       -  R\ :sub:`33low`

       -  R\ :sub:`33high`
