Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-select-source.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE:

===================
VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE
===================

Name
----

VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE, video_stream_source_t source)
    :name: VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  video_stream_source_t source

       -  Indicates which source shall be used for the Video stream.


Description
-----------

This ioctl is for DVB devices only. This ioctl was also supported by the
V4L2 ivtv driver, but that has been replaced by the ivtv-specific
``IVTV_IOC_PASSTHROUGH_MODE`` ioctl.

This ioctl call informs the video device which source shall be used for
the input data. The possible sources are demux or memory. If memory is
selected, the data is fed to the video device through the write command.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.

Commit message:

[media] fix broken references on dvb/video*rst
Trivially fix those broken references, by copying the structs
fron the header, just like other API documentation at the
DVB side.

This doesn't have the level of quality used at the V4L2 side
of the API, but, as this documents a deprecated API, used
only by av7110 driver, it doesn't make much sense to invest
time making it better.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-select-source.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE:

===================
VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE
===================

Name
----

VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE, video_stream_source_t source)
    :name: VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  video_stream_source_t source

       -  Indicates which source shall be used for the Video stream.


Description
-----------

This ioctl is for DVB devices only. This ioctl was also supported by the
V4L2 ivtv driver, but that has been replaced by the ivtv-specific
``IVTV_IOC_PASSTHROUGH_MODE`` ioctl.

This ioctl call informs the video device which source shall be used for
the input data. The possible sources are demux or memory. If memory is
selected, the data is fed to the video device through the write command.

.. c:type:: video_stream_source_t

.. code-block:: c

	typedef enum {
		VIDEO_SOURCE_DEMUX, /* Select the demux as the main source */
		VIDEO_SOURCE_MEMORY /* If this source is selected, the stream
				comes from the user through the write
				system call */
	} video_stream_source_t;

Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
